Codebook for `tidydata.csv`
===========================
The data used to generate `tidydata.csv` was obtained from a link provided as
part of the course project. The link to retrieve the data (accurate as of 27
July 2014) is:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

The original source of the data can be found in the link below:

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

Data transformations
--------------------
The data was generated by an R script, included in this repository as
`run_analysis.R`. The script is well-documented and explains each step taken to
transform the data.

However, in brief, the `run_analysis.R` does the following:

1. Merge the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extract only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each
   measurement.
3. Use descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately label the data set with descriptive variable names.
5. Create a second, independent tidy data set in a `tidydata.csv` file with the
   average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

Format & variables
------------------
`tidydata.csv` is a comma-separated values file which can be parsed by R's
`read.csv` function. The data contains the following identifier columns:

| Column Name | Description                                                    |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Subject     | An integer identifying a single test subject. There are 30 subjects in total. |
| Activity    | A factor identify the type of activity the measurements were derived from. Possible values are: `WALKING`, `WALKING_UPSTAIRS`, `WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS`, `SITTING`, `STANDING` and `LAYING`. |

In addition, each row has 66 columns denoting measurements for each combination
of identifiers. The column names take the following format:

```
<MeasurementDomain><MeasurementSource>-<Type>-<Axis>
```

`MeasurementDomain` may be either `Time` or `Frequency`.

`MeasurementSource` generally includes either `Accelerometer` or `Gyroscope`.
This indicates the source of the measurements. In addition, some columns may
further include descriptions of the measurement, such as `Magnitude`.

`Type` may be either `Mean`, indicating an average, or `Std`, indicating
standard deviation.

`Axis` may or may not be present and indicates the axis of movement in which the
measurements took place. This can be either `X`, `Y` or `Z`.
